---
title: "WELCOME TO MY BLOG"
date: 2023-01-23
---
GO language is a c style language created by engineers at google. It is simpler and faster than c, c++, and java. It is more type-safe than ruby or python and easy to use. It has more benefits and fewer drawbacks. GO is much faster in performance. I chose the GO language because of its speed and clear hierarchy. It has gained more popularity and learning it can earn a job and career at google, a dream for many software developers. In the future, GO lang can be used in cloud services which will be helpful in the development of infrastructure that can be maintained in the long run.

Learning the GOLANG programming language was challenging as it differed from another programming Languages. 
Firstly, I have downloaded and installed GOLANG from its official website https://go.dev/ 
I installed it according to the steps on the website, and it ran successfully on my pc. 
For installing GOLANG on our PC we require a text editor and compiler
I installed VS code and downloaded the required tools in VS code to write and execute GOLANG programs. 
The first program I wrote in GOLANG is the most common across all programming languages, i.e., the HELLO WORLD program.

          package main 
          import "fmt"
          func main() 
          
        {
        
        // prints output
            fmt.Println("Hello, This is DEEKSHITH MATTEPALLY, this is my first blog post about GOLANG")
        }

OUTPUT:

        Hello, This is DEEKSHITH MATTEPALLY, this is my first blog post about GOLANG

package main: It has the overall content of the program. It is the initial point of running the program, so writing is essential.
 
import "fmt": a preprocessor command that tells the compiler to include the files lying in the package.
 
 
func central (): it is the beginning of the execution of the program. Here, func is used to create a function in GOLANG.
 
fmt.Println: It is a standard library function to print something as a output on the screen. In this, fmt package has transmitted Println method, which is used to display the output.
 
A Go compiler is required to execute a Go program. We must first construct a program in the Go compiler and save it with the extension .go, for example first.go Now; let us test this out. Use the following command to open a go file in the go compiler, i.e.
$ go run first.go
DATA TYPES IN GOLANG: In GOLANG, data types are divided into four categories. They are 

BASIC TYPE: numbers, strings, and Boolean 
AGGREGATE TYPE: arrays and structs
REFERENCE TYPE: pointers, slices, maps, functions, and channel
INTERFACE TYPE

Here, in BASIC TYPE, numbers are categorized into three subcategories, which are 
Integers -  In the Go language, both signed and unsigned integers are available in four different sizes.
Floating-point numbers - In the Go language, floating-point numbers are divided into two categories.
Complex numbers - Complex numbers are divided into two parts. 

Example programs for numbers:

           // Go program to illustrate
           // the use of integers
           package main
           import "fmt"
           func main()

        {
           
           // Using 8-bit unsigned int
           var X uint8 = 225
           fmt.Println(X, X-3)
           
           // Using 16-bit signed int
           var Y int16 = 32767
           fmt.Println(Y+2, Y-2)
        }

Output: 
        225 222
       -32767 32765

Example program for Boolean:

          // Go program to illustrate
          // the use of booleans
          package main
          import "fmt"
          func main() 
        {
          
          // variables
           
            str1 := "SOFTWAREENGINEERING"
            str2:= "softwareengineering"
            str3:= "SOFTWAREENGINEERING"
            
            result1:= str1 == str2
            result2:= str1 == str3
            
            // Display the result
            
            fmt.Println( result1)
            fmt.Println( result2)
            
            // Display the type of
            // result1 and result2
            
            fmt.Printf("The type of result1 is %T and "+"the type of result2 is %T", result1, result2)
         }

OUTPUT: 

         false
         true
         The type of result1 is bool and the type of result2 is bool
 
 Example program for strings: 

              // Go program to illustrate
             // the use of strings
      package main
      import "fmt"
      func main()
      {

             // str variable which stores strings
             
              str := "DEEKSHITH"
              
             // Display the length of the string
             
              fmt.Printf("Length of the string is:%d",
                                       len(str))
             // Display the string
             
              fmt.Printf("\nString is: %s", str)
              
             // Display the type of str variable
             
              fmt.Printf("\nType of str is: %T", str)
       }


OUTPUT:

        Length of the string is: 9
        String is: DEEKSHITH
        Type of str is: string
        
	
VARIABLES IN GO:
A typical program employs a variety of values, some of which could change as it runs. As an illustration, consider a program that manipulates user-entered values. It is possible for values entered by one user and another user to be different. As a result, using variables is important because a different user might not utilize the same values. When a user enters a new value, the computer's Random Access Memory can store it temporarily. Because the values in this area of memory change as the operation is carried out, a new term for this phenomenon called variables emerged. A variable is a reference for data that can be altered in real-time.

There are specific rules for naming variables in GO LANG, and they are.

Variables must begin with a letter or an underscore (_) but not with a numerical one.
Variable names are case-sensitive.
Keywords are not allowed to use as a variable.

In GO LANG, variables are declared in two ways, they are.

Using var keyword
          Syntax: variable_name type = expression
          
Type or the = expression can be omitted in the syntax above, but not both.
The default value for the variable's type will be used if the = expression is absent. Typically, the default value is 0.
The value-initialize in the expression determines the type of variable if the type is removed.

Using the short variable declaration
          Syntax: variable_name:= expression
          
In the expression above, the type of the expression defines the type of the variable.

Example program for using the var keyword

          package main
          import "fmt"
          func main() {
	
	var name string = "Deekshith Mattepally"
	var age int = 26
	var height float64 = 5.7

	fmt.Println("Name:", name)
	fmt.Println("Age:", age)
	fmt.Println("Height:", height) }
OUTPUT:

Name: Deekshith Mattepally
Age: 26
Height: 5.7

Example program for using the short variable declaration:

          package main
          import "fmt"
          func main() {
    // Short variable declaration
    age := 24
    name := "DEEKSHITH"
    cgpa:= 4.0
    
    fmt.Println(age)
    fmt.Println(name)
    fmt.Println(cgpa)
    fmt.Printf("The type of age is %T\n", age)
    fmt.Printf("The type of name is %T\n", name)
    fmt.Printf("The type of cgpa is %T\n", cgpa)
}

OUTPUT:
24
DEEKSHITH
4
The type of a is int
The type of b is string
The type of c is float64

OPERATORS IN GO LANG

Any programming language's core is its set of operators. As a result, the Go programming language is only sufficient with the use of operators. Operands can be subjected to a variety of procedures thanks to operators. According to their various functionalities, Go operators can be divided into the following categories:

Arithmetic Operators
Relational Operators
Logical Operators
Bitwise Operators
Assignment Operators
Misc Operators

Arithmetic operators:

They are used to perform mathematical operands.

+, -, *, /, %

Example:
          package main
          import "fmt"
          func main() {
          
	p := 34
	q := 20

	result := [4]int{p + q, p - q, p * q, p / q}
	fmt.Printf("Result of p + q = %d\n", result[0])
	fmt.Printf("Result of p - q = %d\n", result[1])
	fmt.Printf("Result of p * q = %d\n", result[2])
	fmt.Printf("Result of p / q = %d\n", result[3])
}

Output:
Result of p + q = 54
Result of p - q = 14
Result of p * q = 680
Result of p / q = 1

Relational operators: They are used to compare two values
''=='', ''!'', ''>'', ''<'', ''>='', ''<=''

  	
Example: 
          // Go program to illustrate the
          // use of relational operators
                    package main
                    import "fmt"
                    func main() {

                    p:= 34
                    q:= 20
	
// '=='(Equal To)
result1:= p == q
fmt.Println(result1)
	
// '!='(Not Equal To)
result2:= p != q
fmt.Println(result2)
	
// '<'(Less Than)
result3:= p < q
fmt.Println(result3)
	
// '>'(Greater Than)
result4:= p > q
fmt.Println(result4)
	
// '>='(Greater Than Equal To)
result5:= p >= q
fmt.Println(result5)
	
// '<='(Less Than Equal To)
result6:= p <= q
fmt.Println(result6)
	
	
}

Output: 
false
true
false
true
true
false

Logical operators: They are utilized to complement the evaluation of the initial condition under consideration or to integrate two or more conditions or limitations.

Logical AND, logical OR, logical NOT

          Example:
// Go program to illustrate the
// use of logical operators
package main
import "fmt"
func main() {
var p int = 23
var q int = 60
if(p!=q && p<=q){
	fmt.Println("True")
	}
	if(p!=q || p<=q){
	fmt.Println("True")
	}
   	if(!(p==q)){
	fmt.Println("True")
	}
	}	
Output: 
True
True
True

BITWISE OPERATORS: these are used to perform bit-by-bit operations.
 & (bitwise AND), | (bitwise OR), ^ (bitwise XOR), << (left shift), >>(right shift), &^ (AND NOT)
	Example: 
// Go program to illustrate the
// use of bitwise operators
package main
import "fmt"
func main() {
p:= 33
q:= 58
// & (bitwise AND)
result1:= p & q
fmt.Printf("Result of p & q = %d", result1)
// | (bitwise OR)
result2:= p | q
fmt.Printf("\nResult of p | q = %d", result2)
// ^ (bitwise XOR)
result3:= p ^ q
fmt.Printf("\nResult of p ^ q = %d", result3)

// << (left shift)
result4:= p << 1
fmt.Printf("\nResult of p << 1 = %d", result4)
// >> (right shift)
result5:= p >> 1
fmt.Printf("\nResult of p >> 1 = %d", result5)
// &^ (AND NOT)
result6:= p &^ q
fmt.Printf("\nResult of p &^ q = %d", result6)
		}
Output: 
Result of p & q = 32
Result of p | q = 59
Result of p ^ q = 27
Result of p << 1 = 66
Result of p >> 1 = 16
Result of p &^ q = 1
ASSIGNMENT OPERATORS: To give a variable a value, assignment operators are utilized. The assignment operator has a variable as its left-side operand and a value as its right-side operand. The variable's data type must match the value on the right side for the compiler not to produce an error.
"=" (Simple Assignment)
"+=" (Add Assignment)
"-=" (Subtract Assignment)
"*=" (Multiply Assignment)
"/=" (Division Assignment) 
"%=" (Modulus Assignment)
"&=" (Bitwise AND Assignment)
"^=" (Bitwise Exclusive OR)
"|=" (Bitwise Inclusive OR)
"<<=" (Left shift AND Assignment operator)
">>="(Right shift AND assignment operator)
	
Example: 
// Go program to illustrate the
// use of assignment operators
          package main
          import "fmt"
          func main() {
	var p int = 85
	var q int = 60
// "="(Simple Assignment)
	p = q
	fmt.Println(p)
// "+="(Add Assignment)
	p += q
	fmt.Println(p)
// "-="(Subtract Assignment)
	p -= q
	fmt.Println(p)
// "*="(Multiply Assignment)
p *= q
fmt.Println(p)
// "/="(Division Assignment)
p /= q
fmt.Println(p)
// "%="(Modulus Assignment)
	p %= q
	fmt.Println(p)
}
Output: 
60
120
60
3600
60
0
MISC OPERATORS:
"&": This operator returns the variable's address.
"*": This operator gives a pointer to a variable.
"<"-: This operator is known as receive. A value is obtained from the channel using it.
Example:
// Go program to illustrate the
// use of Misc Operators
package main
import "fmt"
fund main() {
	a := 6
// Using address of operator(&) and
// pointer indirection(*) operator
	b := &a
	fmt.Println(*b)
	*b = 9
	fmt.Println(a)
}
Output: 
6
9
 

